docs/README.md, before:

# 📚 Notification Tracker Bundle - Complete Documentation Index

## 🚀 Quick Start
- **[Installation Guide](../README.md#installation)** - Get started with Composer installation
- **[Basic Configuration](../README.md#configuration)** - Essential setup steps
- **[API Overview](API-DOCUMENTATION.md#quick-start-guide)** - REST API basics

---

## 📖 Core Documentation

### 🏗️ Architecture & Design
- **[Overview](notification-tracking/01-overview.md)** - System architecture and concepts
- **[Database Schema](notification-tracking/02-database-schema.md)** - Complete entity relationships
- **[Entities](notification-tracking/03-entities.md)** - Data models and properties

### 🔧 Backend Implementation  
- **[Services](notification-tracking/04-services.md)** - Core business logic services
- **[Transport Decorators](notification-tracking/05-transport-decorators.md)** - Message transport layer
- **[Webhook Controllers](notification-tracking/06-webhook-controllers.md)** - Webhook handling
- **[Migrations](notification-tracking/08-migrations.md)** - Database setup and updates

### ⚙️ Integration & Configuration
- **[Configuration Guide](notification-tracking/07-configuration.md)** - Detailed configuration options
- **[Updated Configuration](notification-tracking/11-updated-configuration.md)** - Latest config updates
- **[Symfony Events](notification-tracking/09-symfony-event-integration.md)** - Event system integration
- **[Messenger Integration](notification-tracking/10-messenger-integration.md)** - Async message processing
- **[Console Commands](notification-tracking/12-console-commands.md)** - CLI tools and utilities

---

## 🌐 API Documentation

### 📋 REST API Reference
- **[Complete API Documentation](API-DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Full REST API reference
- **[Analytics & Performance Intelligence](ANALYTICS-DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Comprehensive analytics endpoints and UI implementation
- **[OpenAPI Specification](openapi.yaml)** - Machine-readable API schema
- **[Postman Collection](https://www.postman.com/collections/notification-tracker-api)** - Ready-to-use API collection

### 🔍 Key API Endpoints
- **GET /notifications** - List notifications with pagination
- **POST /notifications** - Create rich multi-channel notifications  
- **GET /messages** - Browse message details and status
- **GET /analytics/dashboard** - Comprehensive performance analytics
- **GET /analytics/channels** - Channel performance breakdown
- **GET /analytics/trends** - Time-series analysis and forecasting
- **GET /analytics/failures** - Failure analysis and diagnostics

---

## 🎨 Frontend Implementation

### 💻 UI Development
- **[UI Specifications](UI-SPECIFICATIONS.md)** - Complete component design system
- **[React Implementation Guide](REACT-IMPLEMENTATION-GUIDE.md)** - TypeScript/React components
- **[Vue.js Implementation](https://github.com/notification-tracker/vue-components)** - Vue 3 components (coming soon)
- **[Angular Implementation](https://github.com/notification-tracker/angular-components)** - Angular components (coming soon)

### 🛠️ Development Tools
- **TypeScript Types** - Complete type definitions included
- **React Query Hooks** - Efficient data fetching patterns
- **Form Components** - Validated input components
- **Chart Components** - Analytics visualization

---

## 🔧 Advanced Topics

### 📊 Analytics & Monitoring
- **Dashboard Statistics** - Real-time performance metrics
- **Channel Performance Analysis** - Per-channel analytics and optimization
- **Engagement Tracking** - Open rates, click rates, delivery stats
- **Failure Analysis & Diagnostics** - Root cause analysis and recommendations
- **Cost Analytics** - Financial tracking and budget optimization
- **Trend Analysis & Forecasting** - Historical patterns and predictions
- **Custom Events** - Track user interactions and behaviors

### 🔄 Real-time Features
- **WebSocket Integration** - Live status updates
- **Event Streaming** - Real-time notification events
- **Status Notifications** - Instant delivery confirmations
- **Live Analytics** - Real-time dashboard updates

### 🚀 Multi-Channel Support
- **📧 Email** - HTML/text with attachments and templates
- **📱 SMS** - Global SMS delivery with multiple providers  
- **🔔 Push Notifications** - Mobile and web push
- **💬 Slack** - Rich messages with interactive components
- **✈️ Telegram** - Bot integration with media support

### 🔐 Security & Compliance
- **Authentication** - API key and Bearer token support
- **Rate Limiting** - Prevent API abuse
- **Data Privacy** - GDPR compliance features
- **Webhook Security** - Signature verification
- **Audit Logging** - Complete activity tracking

---

## 📚 Code Examples

### Backend Usage
```php
// Create notification via service
$tracker = $container->get(NotificationTracker::class);
$notification = $tracker->track([
    'type' => 'welcome',
    'importance' => 'high',
    'subject' => 'Welcome to our platform!',
    'channels' => ['email', 'push'],
    'recipients' => [
        ['email' => 'user@example.com', 'name' => 'John Doe']
    ],
    'content' => 'Welcome! Let\'s get you started.',
]);
```

### Frontend Usage  
```typescript
// Create notification via React hook
const createNotification = useCreateNotification();

const handleSubmit = async (data: CreateNotificationRequest) => {
  const result = await createNotification.mutateAsync({
    type: 'marketing',
    importance: 'normal',
    channels: ['email', 'sms'],
    recipients: [
      { email: 'customer@example.com', phone: '+1234567890' }
    ],
    content: 'Check out our latest offers!'
  });
};
```

### API Usage
```bash
# Create notification via REST API
curl -X POST "https://api.example.com/notification-tracker/notifications" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-API-Key: your-api-key" \
  -d '{
    "type": "alert",
    "importance": "urgent",
    "channels": ["email", "slack", "sms"],
    "recipients": [
      {"email": "admin@example.com"},
      {"channel": "#alerts"},
      {"phone": "+1234567890"}
    ],
    "content": "System maintenance scheduled for tonight."
  }'
```

---

## 🔗 External Resources

### 🌟 Community & Support
- **[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/username/notification-tracker-bundle)** - Source code and issues
- **[Packagist Package](https://packagist.org/packages/username/notification-tracker-bundle)** - Composer package
- **[Discord Community](https://discord.gg/notification-tracker)** - Chat with developers
- **[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/notification-tracker)** - Q&A support

### 📦 Related Packages
- **[Symfony Mailer](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html)** - Email transport integration
- **[Symfony Messenger](https://symfony.com/doc/current/messenger.html)** - Async processing
- **[API Platform](https://api-platform.com/)** - REST/GraphQL API framework
- **[Doctrine ORM](https://www.doctrine-project.org/projects/orm.html)** - Database abstraction

### 🎯 Migration Guides
- **From v0.1.x to v0.2.x** - Upgrade instructions (coming soon)
- **From Swiftmailer** - Migration from legacy systems
- **From Custom Solutions** - Adopting the bundle

---

## 🏆 Best Practices

### 🔄 Performance Optimization
- **Async Processing** - Use Messenger for background jobs
- **Database Indexing** - Optimize queries with proper indexes  
- **Caching Strategies** - Cache frequently accessed data
- **Batch Operations** - Process multiple notifications efficiently

### 🛡️ Error Handling
- **Retry Logic** - Automatic retry with exponential backoff
- **Dead Letter Queues** - Handle permanently failed messages
- **Monitoring** - Set up alerts for high failure rates
- **Logging** - Comprehensive error and activity logging

### 📈 Scalability
- **Horizontal Scaling** - Multi-instance deployment
- **Database Sharding** - Scale message storage
- **Queue Management** - Balance load across workers
- **CDN Integration** - Optimize asset delivery

---

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
- **[Installation Problems](API-DOCUMENTATION.md#troubleshooting)** - Dependency conflicts and setup issues
- **[Configuration Errors](notification-tracking/07-configuration.md#troubleshooting)** - Missing or invalid configuration
- **[Transport Failures](notification-tracking/05-transport-decorators.md#debugging)** - Email/SMS delivery issues
- **[Performance Issues](notification-tracking/04-services.md#optimization)** - Slow queries and memory usage

### Debug Tools
- **Symfony Profiler** - Debug API requests and database queries
- **Monolog Integration** - Structured logging and debugging
- **Console Commands** - Test and debug from command line
- **Webhook Testing** - Validate webhook integrations

---

## 📄 License & Contributing

This bundle is released under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](../LICENSE) for details.

### Contributing Guidelines
- **[Code of Conduct](CONTRIBUTING.md#code-of-conduct)** - Community guidelines
- **[Development Setup](CONTRIBUTING.md#development-setup)** - Local development environment
- **[Pull Request Process](CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests)** - Contribution workflow
- **[Testing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md#testing)** - Quality assurance standards

---

*📅 Last Updated: January 2025 | 🚀 Current Version: v0.1.18*

> **Ready to build something amazing?** Start with our [Quick Start Guide](../README.md#quick-start) and join thousands of developers using Notification Tracker Bundle! ⭐

Commit message:

feat: Revise documentation for clarity and organization; add comprehensive API reference and restructure existing files

docs/README.md, after:

# 📚 Notification Tracker Bundle Documentation

> **⚠️ EXPERIMENTAL** - This bundle is in active development and should not be used in production.

## 🎯 Quick Navigation

**START HERE:** 👉 **[Complete Guide](MAIN_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Everything you need to know

### Essential Documents
- 📖 **[Main Documentation](MAIN_DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Complete setup and usage guide  
- 🌐 **[API Reference](API_REFERENCE.md)** - REST API endpoints
- 🔍 **[Custom Filters](API_FILTERS.md)** - Advanced filtering options
- 📁 **[Documentation Index](DOCUMENTATION_INDEX.md)** - File organization guide
- ⚠️ **[Experimental Notice](../EXPERIMENTAL.md)** - Important warnings

## How This Bundle Works

**This bundle automatically tracks emails and notifications** sent through:
- ✅ **Symfony Mailer** (`$mailer->send($email)`) 
- ✅ **Symfony Notifier** (`$notifier->send($notification)`)

**No code changes required!** Just install, configure, and start tracking.

## ⚠️ Documentation Notice

Many files in this `docs/` folder contain **outdated information** that references Messenger usage instead of the actual Mailer/Notifier tracking. Always start with the main documentation files listed above.

---

## 📖 Core Documentation

### 🏗️ Architecture & Design
- **[Overview](notification-tracking/01-overview.md)** - System architecture and concepts
- **[Database Schema](notification-tracking/02-database-schema.md)** - Complete entity relationships
- **[Entities](notification-tracking/03-entities.md)** - Data models and properties

### 🔧 Backend Implementation  
- **[Services](notification-tracking/04-services.md)** - Core business logic services
- **[Transport Decorators](notification-tracking/05-transport-decorators.md)** - Message transport layer
- **[Webhook Controllers](notification-tracking/06-webhook-controllers.md)** - Webhook handling
- **[Migrations](notification-tracking/08-migrations.md)** - Database setup and updates

### ⚙️ Integration & Configuration
- **[Configuration Guide](notification-tracking/07-configuration.md)** - Detailed configuration options
- **[Updated Configuration](notification-tracking/11-updated-configuration.md)** - Latest config updates
- **[Symfony Events](notification-tracking/09-symfony-event-integration.md)** - Event system integration
- **[Messenger Integration](notification-tracking/10-messenger-integration.md)** - Async message processing
- **[Console Commands](notification-tracking/12-console-commands.md)** - CLI tools and utilities

---

## 🌐 API Documentation

### 📋 REST API Reference
- **[Complete API Documentation](API-DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Full REST API reference
- **[Analytics & Performance Intelligence](ANALYTICS-DOCUMENTATION.md)** - Comprehensive analytics endpoints and UI implementation
- **[OpenAPI Specification](openapi.yaml)** - Machine-readable API schema
- **[Postman Collection](https://www.postman.com/collections/notification-tracker-api)** - Ready-to-use API collection

### 🔍 Key API Endpoints
- **GET /notifications** - List notifications with pagination
- **POST /notifications** - Create rich multi-channel notifications  
- **GET /messages** - Browse message details and status
- **GET /analytics/dashboard** - Comprehensive performance analytics
- **GET /analytics/channels** - Channel performance breakdown
- **GET /analytics/trends** - Time-series analysis and forecasting
- **GET /analytics/failures** - Failure analysis and diagnostics

---

## 🎨 Frontend Implementation

### 💻 UI Development
- **[UI Specifications](UI-SPECIFICATIONS.md)** - Complete component design system
- **[React Implementation Guide](REACT-IMPLEMENTATION-GUIDE.md)** - TypeScript/React components
- **[Vue.js Implementation](https://github.com/notification-tracker/vue-components)** - Vue 3 components (coming soon)
- **[Angular Implementation](https://github.com/notification-tracker/angular-components)** - Angular components (coming soon)

### 🛠️ Development Tools
- **TypeScript Types** - Complete type definitions included
- **React Query Hooks** - Efficient data fetching patterns
- **Form Components** - Validated input components
- **Chart Components** - Analytics visualization

---

## 🔧 Advanced Topics

### 📊 Analytics & Monitoring
- **Dashboard Statistics** - Real-time performance metrics
- **Channel Performance Analysis** - Per-channel analytics and optimization
- **Engagement Tracking** - Open rates, click rates, delivery stats
- **Failure Analysis & Diagnostics** - Root cause analysis and recommendations
- **Cost Analytics** - Financial tracking and budget optimization
- **Trend Analysis & Forecasting** - Historical patterns and predictions
- **Custom Events** - Track user interactions and behaviors

### 🔄 Real-time Features
- **WebSocket Integration** - Live status updates
- **Event Streaming** - Real-time notification events
- **Status Notifications** - Instant delivery confirmations
- **Live Analytics** - Real-time dashboard updates

### 🚀 Multi-Channel Support
- **📧 Email** - HTML/text with attachments and templates
- **📱 SMS** - Global SMS delivery with multiple providers  
- **🔔 Push Notifications** - Mobile and web push
- **💬 Slack** - Rich messages with interactive components
- **✈️ Telegram** - Bot integration with media support

### 🔐 Security & Compliance
- **Authentication** - API key and Bearer token support
- **Rate Limiting** - Prevent API abuse
- **Data Privacy** - GDPR compliance features
- **Webhook Security** - Signature verification
- **Audit Logging** - Complete activity tracking

---

## 📚 Code Examples

### Backend Usage
```php
// Create notification via service
$tracker = $container->get(NotificationTracker::class);
$notification = $tracker->track([
    'type' => 'welcome',
    'importance' => 'high',
    'subject' => 'Welcome to our platform!',
    'channels' => ['email', 'push'],
    'recipients' => [
        ['email' => 'user@example.com', 'name' => 'John Doe']
    ],
    'content' => 'Welcome! Let\'s get you started.',
]);
```

### Frontend Usage  
```typescript
// Create notification via React hook
const createNotification = useCreateNotification();

const handleSubmit = async (data: CreateNotificationRequest) => {
  const result = await createNotification.mutateAsync({
    type: 'marketing',
    importance: 'normal',
    channels: ['email', 'sms'],
    recipients: [
      { email: 'customer@example.com', phone: '+1234567890' }
    ],
    content: 'Check out our latest offers!'
  });
};
```

### API Usage
```bash
# Create notification via REST API
curl -X POST "https://api.example.com/notification-tracker/notifications" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "X-API-Key: your-api-key" \
  -d '{
    "type": "alert",
    "importance": "urgent",
    "channels": ["email", "slack", "sms"],
    "recipients": [
      {"email": "admin@example.com"},
      {"channel": "#alerts"},
      {"phone": "+1234567890"}
    ],
    "content": "System maintenance scheduled for tonight."
  }'
```

---

## 🔗 External Resources

### 🌟 Community & Support
- **[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/username/notification-tracker-bundle)** - Source code and issues
- **[Packagist Package](https://packagist.org/packages/username/notification-tracker-bundle)** - Composer package
- **[Discord Community](https://discord.gg/notification-tracker)** - Chat with developers
- **[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/notification-tracker)** - Q&A support

### 📦 Related Packages
- **[Symfony Mailer](https://symfony.com/doc/current/mailer.html)** - Email transport integration
- **[Symfony Messenger](https://symfony.com/doc/current/messenger.html)** - Async processing
- **[API Platform](https://api-platform.com/)** - REST/GraphQL API framework
- **[Doctrine ORM](https://www.doctrine-project.org/projects/orm.html)** - Database abstraction

### 🎯 Migration Guides
- **From v0.1.x to v0.2.x** - Upgrade instructions (coming soon)
- **From Swiftmailer** - Migration from legacy systems
- **From Custom Solutions** - Adopting the bundle

---

## 🏆 Best Practices

### 🔄 Performance Optimization
- **Async Processing** - Use Messenger for background jobs
- **Database Indexing** - Optimize queries with proper indexes  
- **Caching Strategies** - Cache frequently accessed data
- **Batch Operations** - Process multiple notifications efficiently

### 🛡️ Error Handling
- **Retry Logic** - Automatic retry with exponential backoff
- **Dead Letter Queues** - Handle permanently failed messages
- **Monitoring** - Set up alerts for high failure rates
- **Logging** - Comprehensive error and activity logging

### 📈 Scalability
- **Horizontal Scaling** - Multi-instance deployment
- **Database Sharding** - Scale message storage
- **Queue Management** - Balance load across workers
- **CDN Integration** - Optimize asset delivery

---

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
- **[Installation Problems](API-DOCUMENTATION.md#troubleshooting)** - Dependency conflicts and setup issues
- **[Configuration Errors](notification-tracking/07-configuration.md#troubleshooting)** - Missing or invalid configuration
- **[Transport Failures](notification-tracking/05-transport-decorators.md#debugging)** - Email/SMS delivery issues
- **[Performance Issues](notification-tracking/04-services.md#optimization)** - Slow queries and memory usage

### Debug Tools
- **Symfony Profiler** - Debug API requests and database queries
- **Monolog Integration** - Structured logging and debugging
- **Console Commands** - Test and debug from command line
- **Webhook Testing** - Validate webhook integrations

---

## 📄 License & Contributing

This bundle is released under the **MIT License**. See [LICENSE](../LICENSE) for details.

### Contributing Guidelines
- **[Code of Conduct](CONTRIBUTING.md#code-of-conduct)** - Community guidelines
- **[Development Setup](CONTRIBUTING.md#development-setup)** - Local development environment
- **[Pull Request Process](CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests)** - Contribution workflow
- **[Testing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md#testing)** - Quality assurance standards

---

*📅 Last Updated: January 2025 | 🚀 Current Version: v0.1.18*

> **Ready to build something amazing?** Start with our [Quick Start Guide](../README.md#quick-start) and join thousands of developers using Notification Tracker Bundle! ⭐
